Introduction:

Thanks for downloading Stik's Security Module for Linux.  The goal of the project was to prodcue a syscall wrapper which implemented a rudimentary labeling schema for system subject and objects.

Support:

The module should support the 2.4.x kernel line.  I've been working with 2.4.18 w/ slackware on one box and rh8 stock system on another.

Also, this only supports IPv4 - crazy things might happen with other networking protocols.

Building the module:

In the module/ directory just make.  You need to have a copy of your kernel source in /usr/src/linux with the asm directories pointing to the ia-32 architecture directories (make config should do that for you).

To make the utilities, in the utils/ directory, check out the makefile.  The makefile kinda sucks so you might have to do some tweaking or hand building.

Using the module:

1st you need to make the interface to the module with mknod
The Utils and the module are hardcoded to work with the following

mknod /dev/westsides c 40 0

Next make sure to have a /etc/westsides/Label file for the utilities.  See utils/SampleLabel for an example

Then just insmod stiksec.o and you're up and going.  There's three distinct security policies to keep in mind

1) Processes - once protected, always protected.  Labels carry across forks and execs.  Also, privileges are allowed unless specifically denied.

2) Filesystem - default policy is to block access only to files protected by a label by setting the label and the rwxd flags on a file.  To flip this policy for a type of access, you need to set the access bit on the process label.

3) Network - If you set a label, access is blocked for that label.  By specifying addr's and ports, you essentially punch holes in the network blocking.  The reverse policy is turned on by setting the LABEL_FUNCTION flag in the process label.

Userland functions (utils/):

Note on human readable labels:
	The binary to hr table is coded to be /etc/westsides/Label.  See utils/SampleLabel for an example.

protfile -
	protect a file.  use -r -w -x -d to block read write exec and delete respectively.  -l <num> sets the label number (just a number for now - until hrtob userspace translation functions are put in).  End with the file you want to protect.  Make sure you have spaces between and individually delimit each option due to bad programming.
delfilesec -
	specify a label with -l.  This function removes the particular label protection for the file

protexec - 
	launch a program with a label. -l <num> sets the label.  -p <num> sets the privilege restrictions.  Take a look at module/privileges.h to see whats available and and 'em together.  End with the program you want to exec.  Remember labeled processes can't access the module.

protnet -
	unblock access to a network resource. -raddr remote address  -l addr local address.  use 1.2.3.4/5.6.7.8 if you need to do subnets.  -rport remote port  -lport localport.  use 10/20 to do a range from 10 to 20.  -L <num> sets a label.  networking is unblocked until you use protnet to set a label.  if you want to block all networking for a label, just use protnet -L <label>, without specifying any addr or port.

delnetsec -
	same args, opposite result

getfilesec -
	Takes no args.  Dumps a big block of the protected files back to you.  Segfaults if you have too many protected files.

getnetsec -
	see getfilesec

getpidsec -
	Takes a PID and returns the label and privilege information

loadtemplate -
	Loads a file and network security template.  See utils/SampleTemplate for an example.

Shortcomings:
	Security model isn't proven.
	All syscalls haven't been tested.
	IPC's aren't controlled.
	Not optimized.

Other information:

Label format

Read  Write  Execute  Append  Delete  Create  Function  Recurse  Label
1     2      3        4       5       6       7         8        9-32

Network attr format

Local addr	Local mask	Local port	Range
1-32		33-64		65-80		81-96
Remote addr	Remote mask	Remote port	Range
97-128		129-160		161-176		177-192

Have fun!!!
-Stik
